[DOC-8377] Release notes for v22.2.12 (#17501)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/releases/v22.2/v22.2.12.md

## v22.2.12

Release Date: July 24, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

> <h3 id="v22-2-12-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

Reviewer: nit: this would make more sense as a CLI change or general change. `debug doctor` isn't really a part of SQL.

Author: Done!

- The `debug doctor` command now allows you to verify that primary indexes store all columns. [#106936](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/106936)

> - Attempting to drop index that is the only source of a column is now forbidden and results in an error. [#106936](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/106936)

Author: @rafiss PTAL

<h3 id="v22-2-12-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

> - Fixed a bug in the new [declarative schema changer](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html#declarative-schema-changer) framework that could cause the incorrect retrieval of the unique secondary index rather than the primary index. This could cause a schema change to fail. For details and to determine whether a cluster is impacted, refer to [Technical Advisory 99561](../advisories/a99561). [#106428](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/106428)

Author: @rimadeodhar @kathancox PTAL

> - Fixed a bug in the new [declarative schema changer](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html#declarative-schema-changer) framework that could cause the incorrect retrieval of the unique secondary index rather than the primary index. This could cause a schema change to fail. For details and to determine whether a cluster is impacted, refer to [Technical Advisory 99561](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/advisories/a99561). [#106428](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/106428)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in the new [declarative schema changer](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html#declarative-schema-changer) framework that could cause the incorrect retrieval of the unique secondary index rather than the primary index. On such a cluster, an ALTER TABLE..ADD COLUMN statement will result in data for the new column being added to the secondary index resulting in query inconsistency. For details and to determine whether a cluster is impacted, refer to [Technical Advisory 99561](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/advisories/a99561). [#106428](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/106428)
```

> - Fixed a bug in the new [declarative schema changer](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html#declarative-schema-changer) framework that could cause the incorrect retrieval of the unique secondary index rather than the primary index. On such a cluster, an `ALTER TABLE..ADD COLUMN` statement will result in data for the new column being added to the secondary index, which could lead to query inconsistency. For details and to determine whether a cluster is impacted, refer to [Technical Advisory 99561](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/advisories/a99561). [#106428](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/106428)

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in the new [declarative schema changer](../v22.2/online-schema-changes.html#declarative-schema-changer) framework that could cause the incorrect retrieval of the unique secondary index rather than the primary index. On such a cluster, an `ALTER TABLE..ADD COLUMN` statement will result in data for the new column being added to the secondary index, which could lead to query inconsistency. For details and to determine whether a cluster is impacted, refer to [Technical Advisory 99561](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/advisories/a99561). [#106428](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/106428)
```
